docs/RST/GettingStarted.rst, before:

Getting started
===============

This section will show:

+  What is Exudyn ?
+  Who is developing Exudyn ?
+  How to install Exudyn 
+  How to link Exudyn and Python
+  Goals of Exudyn
+  Run a simple example in Python
+  FAQ -- Frequently asked questions



What is Exudyn ?
----------------

Exudyn -- (fl\ **EX**\ ible m\ **U**\ ltibody \ **DYN**\ amics  -- \ **EX**\ tend yo\ **U**\ r \ **DYN**\ amics) 

Exudyn is a C++ based Python library for efficient simulation of flexible multibody dynamics systems.
It is the follow up code of the previously developed multibody code HOTINT, which Johannes Gerstmayr started during his PhD-thesis.
It seemed that the previous code HOTINT reached limits of further (efficient) development and it seemed impossible to continue from this code as it was outdated regarding programming techniques and the numerical formulation at the time Exudyn was started.

Exudyn is designed to easily set up complex multibody models, consisting of rigid and flexible bodies with joints, loads and other components. It shall enable automatized model setup and parameter variations, which are often necessary for system design but also for analysis of technical problems. The broad usability of Python allows to couple a multibody simulation with environments such as optimization, statistics, data analysis, machine learning and others.

The multibody formulation is mainly based on redundant coordinates. This means that computational objects (rigid bodies, flexible bodies, ...) are added as independent bodies to the system. Hereafter, connectors (e.g., springs or constraints) are used to interconnect the bodies. The connectors are using Markers on the bodies as interfaces, in order to transfer forces and displacements.
For details on the interaction of nodes, objects, markers and loads see Section :ref:`sec-overview-items`\ . For a non-redundant formulation, see \ ``ObjectKinematicTree``\  -- this allows to create tree-structures with minimal coordinates in Exudyn.

There are several journal papers of the developers which were using Exudyn (list may be incomplete):

+  J. Gerstmayr. Exudyn -- a C++-based Python package for flexible multibody systems. Multibody System Dynamics (2023). \ `https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-023-09937-1 <https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-023-09937-1>`_\  
+  J. Gerstmayr, P. Manzl, M. Pieber. Multibody Models Generated from Natural Language, Preprint, Research Square, 2023. \ `https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3552291/v1 <https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3552291/v1>`_\  
+  P. Manzl, O. Rogov, J. Gerstmayr, A. Mikkola, G. Orzechowski. Reliability Evaluation of Reinforcement Learning Methods for Mechanical Systems with Increasing Complexity.  Preprint, Research Square, 2023.  \ `https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3066420/v1 <https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3066420/v1>`_\ 
+  S. Holzinger, M. Arnold, J. Gerstmayr. Evaluation and Implementation of Lie Group Integration Methods for Rigid Multibody Systems. Preprint, Research Square, 2023.  \ `https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-2715112/v1 <https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-2715112/v1>`_\  
+  M. Sereinig, P. Manzl, and J. Gerstmayr. Task Dependent Comfort Zone, a Base Placement Strategy for Autonomous Mobile Manipulators using Manipulability Measures, Robotics and Autonomous Systems, submitted. 
+  R. Neurauter, J. Gerstmayr. A novel motion reconstruction method for inertial sensors with constraints, Multibody System Dynamics, 2022. 
+  M. Pieber, K. Ntarladima, R. Winkler, J. Gerstmayr. A Hybrid ALE Formulation for the Investigation of the Stability of Pipes Conveying Fluid and Axially Moving Beams, ASME Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, 2022. 
+  S. Holzinger, M. Schieferle, C. Gutmann, M. Hofer, J. Gerstmayr. Modeling and Parameter Identification for a Flexible Rotor with Impacts. Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, 2022. 
+  S. Holzinger, J. Gerstmayr. Time integration of rigid bodies modelled with three rotation parameters, Multibody System Dynamics, Vol. 53(5), 2021. 
+  A. Zwölfer, J. Gerstmayr. The nodal-based floating frame of reference formulation with modal reduction. Acta Mechanica, Vol. 232, pp.  835--851 (2021). 
+  A. Zwölfer, J. Gerstmayr. A concise nodal-based derivation of the floating frame of reference formulation for displacement-based solid finite elements, Journal of Multibody System Dynamics, Vol. 49(3), pp. 291 -- 313, 2020. 
+  S. Holzinger, J. Schöberl, J. Gerstmayr. The equations of motion for a rigid body using non-redundant unified local velocity coordinates. Multibody System Dynamics, Vol. 48, pp. 283 -- 309, 2020. 



Developers of Exudyn and thanks
-------------------------------

Exudyn is currently  developed at the University of Innsbruck.
In the first phase most of the core code is written by Johannes Gerstmayr, implementing ideas that followed out of the project HOTINT . 15 years of development led to a lot of lessons learned and after 20 years, a code must be re-designed.

Some important tests for the coupling between C++ and Python have been written by Stefan Holzinger. Stefan also helped to set up the previous upload to GitLab and to test parallelization features.
For the interoperability between C++ and Python, we extensively use \ **Pybind11**\ , originally written by Jakob Wenzel, see \ ``https://github.com/pybind/pybind11``\ . Without Pybind11 we couldn't have made this project -- Thanks a lot!

Important discussions with researchers from the community were important for the design and development of Exudyn , where we like to mention Joachim Schöberl from TU-Vienna who boosted the design of the code with great concepts. 

The cooperation and funding within the EU H2020-MSCA-ITN project 'Joint Training on Numerical Modelling of Highly Flexible Structures for Industrial Applications' contributes to the development of the code.

The following people have contributed to Python and C++ library implementations, testing, examples or theory:

+  Joachim Schöberl, TU Vienna (Providing specialized NGsolve  core library with \ ``taskmanager``\  for \ **multi-threaded parallelization**\ ; NGsolve mesh and FE-matrices import; highly efficient eigenvector computations)
+  Stefan Holzinger, University of Innsbruck (Lie group module and solvers in Python, Lie group node; helped with Lie group solvers, geometrically exact beam; testing)
+  Peter Manzl, University of Innsbruck (ConvexRoll Python and C++ implementation; revised artificialIntelligence, ParameterVariation, robotics and MPI parallelization; providing many figures for theDoc; pip install on linux, wsl with graphics)
+  Andreas Zwölfer, Technical University Munich (theory and examples for FFRF, CMS formulation and ANCF 2D cable prototypes in MATLAB)
+  Martin Sereinig, University of Innsbruck (special robotics functionality, mobile robots, manipulability measures, robot models)
+  Michael Pieber, University of Innsbruck (helped in several Python libraries; ComputeODE2Eigenvalues with constraints, FEM and CMS testing; Abaqus import and test files; ANCFCable2D+ALE theory improvements and equations check)
+  Grzegorz Orzechowski, Lappeenranta University of Technology (coupling with openAI gym and running machine learning algorithms)
+  Aaron Bacher, University of Innsbruck (helped to integrated OpenVR, connection with Franka Emika Panda)
+  Martin Arnold, Martin-Luther-University of Halle-Wittenberg (support for explicit and implicit Lie group solvers, especially to theory / jacobians and automatic step size)
+  Konstantina Ntarladima, University of Innsbruck (ANCFCable2D+ALE theory improvements and equations check)
+  Alexander Humer, Johannes Kepler University Linz (initial discussions on structure and C++ code)
+  Qasim Khadim, University of Oulu (suggestion for improved model of HydraulicsActuatorSimple with effective bulk modulus)
+  Michael Gerbl, University of Innsbruck (figures in the documentation, taken from lecture notes)
+  examples provided by: Manuel Schieferle, Martin Knapp, Lukas March, Dominik Sponring, David Wibmer, Simon Scheiber

-- thanks a lot! --

Commit message:

upgrade to Exudyn1.10; new internal simpler taskmanager; improved FEM for boundaries; consistent exu.renderer structure; CAM follower; relative coordinates; contact primitives; improved graphics; many fixes

docs/RST/GettingStarted.rst, after:

Getting started
===============

This section will show:

+  What is Exudyn ?
+  Who is developing Exudyn ?
+  How to install Exudyn 
+  How to use Exudyn in Python
+  Goals of Exudyn
+  Run a simple example in Python
+  FAQ -- Frequently asked questions



What is Exudyn ?
----------------

Exudyn -- (fl\ **EX**\ ible m\ **U**\ ltibody \ **DYN**\ amics  -- \ **EX**\ tend yo\ **U**\ r \ **DYN**\ amics) 

Exudyn is a C++ based Python library for efficient simulation of flexible multibody dynamics systems.
It is the follow up code of the previously developed multibody code HOTINT, which Johannes Gerstmayr started during his PhD-thesis.
It seemed that the previous code HOTINT reached limits of further (efficient) development and it seemed impossible to continue from this code as it was outdated regarding programming techniques and the numerical formulation at the time Exudyn was started.

Exudyn is designed to easily set up complex multibody models, consisting of rigid and flexible bodies with joints, loads and other components. It shall enable automatized model setup and parameter variations, which are often necessary for system design but also for analysis of technical problems. The broad usability of Python allows to couple a multibody simulation with environments such as optimization, statistics, data analysis, machine learning and others.

The multibody formulation is mainly based on redundant coordinates. This means that computational objects (rigid bodies, flexible bodies, ...) are added as independent bodies to the system. Hereafter, connectors (e.g., springs or constraints) are used to interconnect the bodies. The connectors are using Markers on the bodies as interfaces, in order to transfer forces and displacements.
For details on the interaction of nodes, objects, markers and loads see Section :ref:`sec-overview-items`\ . For a non-redundant formulation, see \ ``ObjectKinematicTree``\  -- this allows to create tree-structures with minimal coordinates in Exudyn.

There are several journal papers of the developers which were using Exudyn (list is incomplete -- see google scholar):

+  J. Gerstmayr. Exudyn -- a C++-based Python package for flexible multibody systems. Multibody System Dynamics (2023). \ `https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-023-09937-1 <https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-023-09937-1>`_\  
+  J. Gerstmayr, P. Manzl, M. Pieber. Multibody Models Generated from Natural Language, Multibody System Dynamics (2024). \ `https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-023-09962-0 <https://doi.org/10.1007/s11044-023-09962-0>`_\  
+  P. Manzl, O. Rogov, J. Gerstmayr, A. Mikkola, G. Orzechowski. Reliability Evaluation of Reinforcement Learning Methods for Mechanical Systems with Increasing Complexity.  Preprint, Research Square, 2023.  \ `https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3066420/v1 <https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-3066420/v1>`_\ 
+  S. Holzinger, M. Arnold, J. Gerstmayr. Evaluation and Implementation of Lie Group Integration Methods for Rigid Multibody Systems. Preprint, Research Square, 2023.  \ `https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-2715112/v1 <https://doi.org/10.21203/rs.3.rs-2715112/v1>`_\  
+  M. Sereinig, P. Manzl, and J. Gerstmayr. Task Dependent Comfort Zone, a Base Placement Strategy for Autonomous Mobile Manipulators using Manipulability Measures, Robotics and Autonomous Systems, submitted. 
+  R. Neurauter, J. Gerstmayr. A novel motion reconstruction method for inertial sensors with constraints, Multibody System Dynamics, 2022. 
+  M. Pieber, K. Ntarladima, R. Winkler, J. Gerstmayr. A Hybrid ALE Formulation for the Investigation of the Stability of Pipes Conveying Fluid and Axially Moving Beams, ASME Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, 2022. 
+  S. Holzinger, M. Schieferle, C. Gutmann, M. Hofer, J. Gerstmayr. Modeling and Parameter Identification for a Flexible Rotor with Impacts. Journal of Computational and Nonlinear Dynamics, 2022. 
+  S. Holzinger, J. Gerstmayr. Time integration of rigid bodies modelled with three rotation parameters, Multibody System Dynamics, Vol. 53(5), 2021. 
+  A. Zwölfer, J. Gerstmayr. The nodal-based floating frame of reference formulation with modal reduction. Acta Mechanica, Vol. 232, pp.  835--851 (2021). 
+  A. Zwölfer, J. Gerstmayr. A concise nodal-based derivation of the floating frame of reference formulation for displacement-based solid finite elements, Journal of Multibody System Dynamics, Vol. 49(3), pp. 291 -- 313, 2020. 
+  S. Holzinger, J. Schöberl, J. Gerstmayr. The equations of motion for a rigid body using non-redundant unified local velocity coordinates. Multibody System Dynamics, Vol. 48, pp. 283 -- 309, 2020. 



Developers of Exudyn and thanks
-------------------------------

Exudyn is currently  developed at the University of Innsbruck.
In general, most of the Exudyn is written by Johannes Gerstmayr, implementing ideas that followed from the project HOTINT , but also creating many new concepts and approaches. 15 years of development of HOTINT led to a lot of lessons learned and after 20 years, a code must be re-designed.

Some important tests for the coupling between C++ and Python have been written by Stefan Holzinger. Stefan also helped to set up the previous upload to GitLab and to test parallelization features.
For the interoperability between C++ and Python, we extensively use \ **Pybind11**\ , originally written by Jakob Wenzel, see \ ``https://github.com/pybind/pybind11``\ . Without Pybind11 we couldn't have made this project -- Thanks a lot!

Important discussions with researchers from the community were important for the design and development of Exudyn , where we like to mention Joachim Schöberl from TU-Vienna who boosted the design of the code with great concepts. 

The cooperation and funding within the EU H2020-MSCA-ITN project 'Joint Training on Numerical Modelling of Highly Flexible Structures for Industrial Applications' contributes to the development of the code.

The following people have contributed to Python and C++ library implementations, testing, examples or theory:

+  Joachim Schöberl, TU Vienna (Providing specialized NGsolve  core library with \ ``taskmanager``\  for \ **multi-threaded parallelization**\ , which is now replaced by a simplified internal version but closely following the original implementation; NGsolve mesh and FE-matrices import; highly efficient eigenvector computations)
+  Stefan Holzinger, University of Innsbruck (Lie group module and solvers in Python, Lie group node; helped with Lie group solvers, geometrically exact beam; testing)
+  Peter Manzl, University of Innsbruck (ConvexRoll Python and C++ implementation; revised artificialIntelligence, ParameterVariation, robotics and MPI parallelization; providing many figures for theDoc; pip install on linux, wsl with graphics; several other fixes; examples)
+  Andreas Zwölfer, Technical University Munich (theory and examples for FFRF, CMS formulation and ANCF 2D cable prototypes in MATLAB)
+  Michael Pieber, University of Innsbruck (helped in several Python libraries; ComputeODE2Eigenvalues with constraints, FEM and CMS testing; Abaqus import and test files; ANCFCable2D+ALE theory improvements and equations check; examples); Exudyn graphical user interface
+  Martin Sereinig, University of Innsbruck (special robotics functionality, mobile robots, manipulability measures, robot models)
+  Sebastian Weyrer, University of Innsbruck (ObjectContactSphereSphere; FEM RigidBodyInertia; some fixes; examples)
+  Grzegorz Orzechowski, Lappeenranta University of Technology (coupling with openAI gym and running machine learning algorithms)
+  Zhaowei Zhang, Chinese Academy of Sciences (ANCFThinPlate; found several issues and bugs)
+  Aaron Bacher, University of Innsbruck (helped to integrated OpenVR, connection with Franka Emika Panda)
+  Martin Arnold, Martin-Luther-University of Halle-Wittenberg (support for explicit and implicit Lie group solvers, especially to theory / jacobians and automatic step size)
+  Konstantina Ntarladima, University of Innsbruck (ANCFCable2D+ALE theory improvements and equations check)
+  Alexander Humer, Johannes Kepler University Linz (initial discussions on structure and C++ code)
+  Qasim Khadim, University of Oulu (suggestion for improved model of HydraulicsActuatorSimple with effective bulk modulus)
+  Michael Gerbl, University of Innsbruck (figures in the documentation, taken from lecture notes)
+  further examples provided by: Manuel Schieferle, Martin Knapp, Lukas March, Dominik Sponring, David Wibmer, Simon Scheiber and other Master students

-- thanks a lot! --
